Lumio updates (#228)
Lumi-supercomputer/lumi-userguide: docs/storage/lumio/index.md

[lumi-o-tools]: https://github.com/Lumi-supercomputer/LUMI-O-tools
[rclone-manual]: https://rclone.org/docs/

## What is LUMI-O?

> LUMI-O is a S3 compatible object storage. If one has used Amazon AWS S3, many functionalities are the same with LUMI-O, but one should [be aware of the differences](#lumi-o-vs-amazon-s3).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LUMI-O is object storage service accessible through a web interface and S3 API. 
```

> LUMI-O is based on completely different technology than the Lustre parallel filesystem (LUMI-P and LUMI-F). Also, unlike the Lustre parallel file system, LUMI-O is a separate system from LUMI. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LUMI-O is based on completely different technology than the Lustre parallel filesystem (LUMI-P and LUMI-F). Also, unlike the Lustre parallel file system, LUMI-O is a separate service from LUMI compute partitions. 
```

LUMI-O offers a total of 30 PB storage space for storing, sharing, and staging of data. By default 150 TB of storage space is allocated per LUMI project, but projects can request for more LUMI-O storage space by contacting the [LUMI helpdesk](../../helpdesk/index.md).

!!! Info "Some features of LUMI-O"

    - A separate system from LUMI, with a fast connection for data transfer between LUMI filesystem and LUMI-O
    - Accessible also without connecting to LUMI
    - Service breaks of LUMI don't usually affect to availability of LUMI-O
    - Usage with client tools like rclone and s3cmd, or via LUMI web interface
    - Possible to set granular access rights to data (e.g. for other projects or users from other projects) 
    - Possible to set a temporary access link to otherwise private data

>     - Possible to share pubic data across the internet (for the duration of your project)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Possible to share public data across the internet (for the duration of your project)
```

    - In LUMI-O one project is treated as one account: all project members have the same access/user rights to the projects data
    - Data lifetime in LUMI-O is the same as your project lifetime 

## Usage of LUMI-O

All LUMI projects have LUMI-O available by default.

> To access LUMI-O, you will need to [generate authentication credentials](./auth-lumidata-eu.md) that are specific to accessing LUMI-O, and not the same thing as the SSH-keys to access LUMI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access LUMI-O, you will need to [generate access token](./auth-lumidata-eu.md). This token is exclusive for your project. There are no other credentials allowing access to LUMI-O bucket. 
```

For examples how to use LUMI-O, see the 'Use case examples' section and [training material](#training-material).

<!--
This is now in 'Sharing access to data'. Where does it belong to?

!!!info
    Notice that in the object storage, one LUMI project is considered as one account. This means that by default all project members have the same access rights to the data that is stored in the buckets for this project. 
    Projects in LUMI-O are handled as "single user tenants/accounts", where the project numerical id (e.g. 465000001) corresponds both the tenant/account name and the project name.
    Subsequently, **all members of a LUMI-O project have the exact same rights and permissions**, unlike in the LUMI filesystem, where files have individual owners.**Keep this in mind if you have critical data in LUMI-O as any other member of your LUMI project could accidentally delete it**.

-->

## Structure of object storage

> Structure of an object storage differs a bit from a normal file system structure. Instead of a filesystem structure with directories and files, the data is organized in a structure with *buckets* that can contain *objects*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Structure of an object storage is different from a normal file system structure. Instead of directories and files, the data is organized in a flat structure with *buckets* that contain *objects*. 
```
